README.md, before:

# Libvirt Backup

A collection of scripts to be used with libvirt that facilitate incremental backing up of running virtual machines to a remote server.

To install, the files need to be copied to /usr/local/bin on both the host and the backup server:

```
chmod +x backup-all-vms.sh vm-backup.sh vm-consolidate-backups.sh vm-inc-backup.sh
cp *.sh /usr/local/bin
```

To enable incremental backups of all running virtual machines at midnight every day, execute:

```
echo '0 0 * * * root /usr/local/bin/backup-all-vms.sh BACKUP_HOST REMOTE_FOLDER' > /etc/cron.d/backup-vm
```

By default, a maximum of 7 incremental backups are kept. Full backups roll forward.

For example, if the first backup was taken on a Monday, it will be a full backup. If 6 backups are taken every day after, they will each be incremental images backed by the prior day:

```
Monday [F] > Tuesday [I] > Wednesday [I] > Thursday [I] > Friday [I] > Saturday [I] > Sunday [I]
```

The following Monday, another backup will cause the Tuesday backup to become the full backup:

```
Tuesday [F] > Wednesday [I] > Thursday [I] > Friday [I] > Saturday [I] > Sunday [I] > Monday [I]
```

This is achieved by pulling the `Monday [F]` image into the `Tuesday [I]` image.

## TODO
- Prevent incremental backups from interfering with other libvirt snapshots and vice versa.

Commit message:

Rewrite backup functionality using rsync.
Backups are now fully stateless and do not interfere with libvirt
snapshots. In addition, they can now be performed on non-running
domains.

README.md, after:

# QEMU/libvirt Backup Scripts

A collection of scripts to be used with QEMU/libvirt that facilitate incremental backing up of running virtual machines to a remote server. At the moment, only file backed devices are supported.

To install, the files need to be copied to /usr/local/bin on the host:
```
chmod +x *.sh
cp *.sh /usr/local/bin
```

`qemu-img` needs to be available on the remote server. On Debian based machines, this can be installed with:
```
sudo apt install qemu-utils
```

To enable incremental backups of all running virtual machines at midnight every day, execute:
```
echo '0 0 * * * root /usr/local/bin/vm-backup-inc-all.sh REMOTE_DIR HOST' > /etc/cron.d/backup-vms
```

By default, a maximum of 7 incremental backups are kept. Backups are reverse incremental. That is, the most recent backup is a full qcow2 image, and each previous backup uses the next backup as a backing image.

For example, if the first backup was taken on a Monday, it will be a full backup:
```
Monday [F]
```

If another backup is taken on Tuesday, Tuesday will become the full backup, and Monday will become an incremental backup based on Tuesday:
```
Monday [I] > Tuesday [F]
```
If another backup is taken on Wednesday, Wednesday will become the full backup, Tuesday will become an incremental backup based on Wednesday, and Monday will remain as an incremental backup based on Tuesday:
```
Monday [I] > Tuesday [I] > Wednesday [F]
```
